[MO] - [blog post] -> introduction to system tests (#187)
strimzi/strimzi.github.io: _posts/2020-09-07-introduction-to-system-tests.md

---
layout: post
title:  "Introduction to system tests"
date: 2020-09-07

> author: maroš_orsák

Reviewer: Your should add your self to the authors file: https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi.github.io/blob/master/_data/authors.yml ... I think we never tried it with diacritics, so not sure how will that work.

---

> Lessons learn from past years shown that testing is the essential part of the software cycle. We have known many 

Reviewer 2: sorry to be pedantic on this, one sentence per line, please :-)

Author: No problem :) I will update it

failures that happened because of neglect testing. In Strimzi, we exactly know how we should test the features. 
Follow me on this blog post and see the basic view of our tests.

In this blog post we are gonna look at system tests and I will give you motivation why you should look at it. The content 
is as follows:

# Content
1. [Motivation](#Resources)
2. [How they differ from our UT and IT](#Lifecycle of tests)
3. [How they run in relation with Kubernetes](#Auxiliary classes)
4. [How to run them](#How to create a system test)

> 5. [Conclusion](#Conclusion)

Reviewer: Not sure the content is needed. We do not use it for other posts. I don't mind if you want to have it here. But I think it can be also left out.

Author: Hmm, I am a supporter of the content because it shows the reader whole writing.  I would prefer to let content but if Paolo and you think that's should not be used I will remove it :(.

## Motivation

Maybe you ask yourself these questions. Why do we need to write system tests? What is the value of it? Do they catch

> errors that unit or integration tests doesn't? The answer is very simple. Yes! `System tests` are the core unit to be able ship

Reviewer: Either use the module name as code or just say _System Tests_

```suggestion
errors that unit or integration tests doesn't? The answer is very simple. Yes! `system-tests` are the core unit to be able ship
```

the product to the customer with more confidence that it will not crash in the production. These types of tests, which
validate the basic properties of system we call [Smoke tests](https://www.guru99.com/smoke-testing.html). They ensure to detect
major issues such as deployment of application with general configuration and so on. Moreover, we have got the regression
test suites, which coverage most of all features and will definitely find a bug. In the next section i will describe the
difference between our system tests, integration and unit tests.

> ## How they differ from our UT and IT

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't use acronyms here or at least I would define these acronyms in the previous paragraph to allow the reader to understand better what are you talking about.

Firstly, we should know what is the purpose of the Unit test. Let's define information definition of unit test.

> A unit test exercises a single behavior of a software module. That module is usually a class, and the behavior is usually a public method of the class. The test asserts that the actual result matches the expected result. These assertions must all pass, or the unit test will fail. (Ryan Cook)

> Our unit tests doesn't do anything special. For clarification I can show you an example of our unit test for instance in `cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our unit tests don't do anything special. For clarification I can show you an example of our unit test for instance in `cluster
```

> operator` module. This is the test case, which verify that if we setup `Kafka` with external listener Nodeport then 

Reviewer: I think if you format it as code it should be `cluster-operator` as the name of the Maven module. Or you should just write it as _Cluster Operator_ without the code formatting. Similarly, Kafka should be just Kafka and not Kafka`

Author: I will use the first option with the maven module name.

`Kafka` in-memory representation of class will contains the external port name, external port 9094 with protocol TCP and more.
You should see that everything what this type of test validates is only single behaviour of a sofware module that we define
previously. We have no running `Kubernetes cluster`. It is only in-memory representation of class in that case `Kafka` model.

> ```

Reviewer: I think doing ```java might give you some formatting of the code.

        assertThat(ext.getSpec().getType(), is("NodePort"));
        assertThat(ext.getSpec().getSelector(), is(kc.getSelectorLabels().toMap()));
        assertThat(ext.getSpec().getPorts(), is(Collections.singletonList(kc.createServicePort(KafkaCluster.EXTERNAL_PORT_NAME, KafkaCluster.EXTERNAL_PORT, KafkaCluster.EXTERNAL_PORT, "TCP"))));
        checkOwnerReference(kc.createOwnerReference(), ext);

        // Check per pod services
        for (int i = 0; i < replicas; i++)  {
            Service srv = kc.generateExternalService(i);
            assertThat(srv.getMetadata().getName(), is(KafkaCluster.externalServiceName(cluster, i)));
            assertThat(srv.getSpec().getType(), is("NodePort"));
            assertThat(srv.getSpec().getSelector().get(Labels.KUBERNETES_STATEFULSET_POD_LABEL), is(KafkaCluster.kafkaPodName(cluster, i)));
            assertThat(srv.getSpec().getPorts(), is(Collections.singletonList(kc.createServicePort(KafkaCluster.EXTERNAL_PORT_NAME, KafkaCluster.EXTERNAL_PORT, KafkaCluster.EXTERNAL_PORT, "TCP"))));
            checkOwnerReference(kc.createOwnerReference(), srv);
        }
    }
```

> The next one is the integration tests, which step one level higher. You can find all these tests inside our `api module`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next one is the integration tests, which step one level higher. You can find all these tests inside our `api` module.
```

        .withTopicName(TOPIC_NAME)
        .withNamespaceName(NAMESPACE)
        .withClusterName(CLUSTER_NAME)
        .withMessageCount(MESSAGE_COUNT)
        .withKafkaUsername(USER_NAME)
        .withUsingPodName(kafkaClientsPodName)
        .build();

    assertThat(internalKafkaClient.sendMessagesPlain(), is(MESSAGE_COUNT));

    ClientUtils.waitForClientSuccess(consumerName, NAMESPACE, MESSAGE_COUNT);
}

@BeforeAll
void createClassResources() throws Exception {
    deployClusterOperator(NAMESPACE);
    LOGGER.info("Deploy Kafka and KafkaBridge before tests");
    // Deploy kafka
    KafkaResource.kafkaEphemeral(CLUSTER_NAME, 1, 1).done();

    KafkaClientsResource.deployKafkaClients(false, KAFKA_CLIENTS_NAME).done();

    kafkaClientsPodName = kubeClient().listPodsByPrefixInName(KAFKA_CLIENTS_NAME).get(0).getMetadata().getName();

    // Deploy http bridge
    KafkaBridgeResource.kafkaBridge(CLUSTER_NAME, KafkaResources.plainBootstrapAddress(CLUSTER_NAME), 1)
        .editSpec()
            .withNewConsumer()
                .addToConfig(ConsumerConfig.AUTO_OFFSET_RESET_CONFIG, "earliest")
            .endConsumer()
        .endSpec()
        .done();
}
```  

> This test case as you can ensuring that we are able to receive messages from `KafkaBridge` component. In the setup phase 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This test case as you can see ensuring that we are able to receive messages from `KafkaBridge` component. In the setup phase 
```

Reviewer 3: Maybe I'm reading it bad.

Author: Good catch! I would say it should be `This test case as you can see ensures that...`

Reviewer 3: That's my czenglish :D but yes, I would fix it that way too

> we deploy `cluster operator`, one node `Kafka cluster` and also the `KafkaBridge` itself. Everything is inside the real

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we deploy `cluster-operator`, one node Kafka cluster and also the `KafkaBridge` itself. Everything is inside the real
```

> Kubernetes cluster. All test cases with related test suites you can find in the `system module` to make it more sense. What 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes cluster. All test cases with related test suites can be found in the `system-test` module. What 
```

is also worth to mentioned that our system test currently takes around ~30 hours but we have 3 separate sub-sets, which 

> runs in parallel so it is "only" approximately 10h per each sub-set.

Reviewer: You should mention here the different profiles etc.

## How they run with relation with Kubernetes

Basically, what I mentioned in previous section system tests run against real Kubernetes cluster. You can run these 

> tests against `Minikube`, big `Kubernetes` or `Openshift` cluster. In the `test module` we have our representation

Reviewer 3: Maybe mention `minishift`? :smile:

Reviewer 2: Not sure about that ... Minishift is OpenShift 3.11 and it's not so used as before now with OpenShift 4.x

Reviewer 3: Okay, never mind :) it was just suggestion. I guess this way you can mentioned kind etc. and it's not worth

> of cluster which decide on which environment it is running. Moreover, we are using `azure pipelines` to trigger these

Reviewer 2: `Azure pipelines`

tests and using `Minikube`.

## How to run them

Running the system tests is easy thing and nobody should be scared of. The steps are as follows:

> 1. Fork the `strimzi-kafka-operator` repository - https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator

Reviewer 2: I would set is as a link so [repository](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator) instead of showing the URL (when it's clickable it's easily reachable by the reader instead of copy/paste the text link)

2. Build the whole project in root directory - `mvn clean install -DskipTests`
3. Setup your Kubernetes cluster
4. Login to your Kubernetes cluster

> 5. Try to start some of our tests inside system test module for instance - `io.strimzi.systemtest.bridge.HttpBridgeST.testSendSimpleMessage()` (take takes around 5 minutes)

Reviewer: It is important to explain how to run them with custom images since that is what many people might need to know. Also, you can mention that you can just run them from IDE.

Author: Yes good point.

---
layout: post
title:  "Introduction to system tests"
date: 2020-09-07
author: maros_orsak
---

Lessons learn from past years shown that testing is the essential part of the software cycle.
We have known many failures that happened because of neglect testing.
In Strimzi, we exactly know how we should test the features.
Follow me on this blog post and see the basic view of our tests.

In this blog post we are gonna look at system tests and I will give you motivation why you should look at it.
The content is as follows:

# Content

> 1. [Motivation](#Resources)

Author: I have already removed the content from the blog-post as was by Jakub and Paul recommended.

2. [How they differ from our UT and IT](#Lifecycle of tests)
3. [How they run in relation with Kubernetes](#Auxiliary classes)
4. [How to run them](#How to create a system test)
5. [Conclusion](#Conclusion)

## Motivation

Maybe you ask yourself these questions.
Why do we need to write system tests?
What is the value of it?

> Do they catch errors that unit or integration tests doesn't?

Author: Yes

        checkOwnerReference(kc.createOwnerReference(), srv);
    }
}
```

The next one is the integration tests, which step one level higher.
You can find all these tests inside our `api` module.
Before we get into detail again we should understand the informal definition of integration tests.

> Integration tests determine if independently developed units of software work correctly when they are connected to each other. (Martin Fowler)

In our case the purpose of integration tests is to ensure that we can create a resource from the POJOs, serialize it and
create the resource in K8S.
You should notice that in that level of testing we are using the Kubernetes cluster to do validation of custom resources.
To make this all easy to understand let me clarify it with example:

```java
@Test
public void testKafkaWithEntityOperator() {
    createDelete(Kafka.class, "Kafka-with-entity-operator.yaml");
}

protected <T extends CustomResource> void createDelete(Class<T> resourceClass, String resource) {

>     T model = loadResource(resourceClass, resource);  <--- load model in that case Kafka model representation

Reviewer 4: Wouldn't be better to put your comment part as regular Java comment above the line?

    String modelStr = TestUtils.toYamlString(model);  
    assertDoesNotThrow(() -> createDelete(modelStr), 
"Create delete failed after first round-trip -- maybe a problem with a defaulted value?\nApplied string: " + modelStr);
    }
```

> You can see that the test case basically apply the YAML representation of Kafka and except that will not fail and everything

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can see that the test case basically apply the YAML representation of Kafka and expect creation of Kafka customer resource object in kube cluster.
```

is correct.
This is applied for every custom resource supported by `Strimzi` for instance `KafkaConnect`, `KafkaMirrorMaker`, `KafkaBridge`,
`KafkaTopic`, `KafkaUser` and so on.

After this level is successfully completed we can talk about our system tests.

> Let's firstly see the informal definition:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Take a look on the informal definition again:
```

        .build();

    assertThat(internalKafkaClient.sendMessagesPlain(), is(MESSAGE_COUNT));

    ClientUtils.waitForClientSuccess(consumerName, NAMESPACE, MESSAGE_COUNT);
}

@BeforeAll
void createClassResources() throws Exception {
    deployClusterOperator(NAMESPACE);
    LOGGER.info("Deploy Kafka and KafkaBridge before tests");
    // Deploy kafka
    KafkaResource.kafkaEphemeral(CLUSTER_NAME, 1, 1).done();

    KafkaClientsResource.deployKafkaClients(false, KAFKA_CLIENTS_NAME).done();

    kafkaClientsPodName = kubeClient().listPodsByPrefixInName(KAFKA_CLIENTS_NAME).get(0).getMetadata().getName();

    // Deploy http bridge
    KafkaBridgeResource.kafkaBridge(CLUSTER_NAME, KafkaResources.plainBootstrapAddress(CLUSTER_NAME), 1)
        .editSpec()
            .withNewConsumer()
                .addToConfig(ConsumerConfig.AUTO_OFFSET_RESET_CONFIG, "earliest")
            .endConsumer()
        .endSpec()
        .done();
}
```

This test case as you can see ensures that we are able to receive messages from `KafkaBridge` component.
In the setup phase we deploy `cluster-operator`, one node Kafka cluster and also the `KafkaBridge` itself.

> Everything is inside the real Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Everything is deployed into the real Kubernetes cluster.
```

> All test cases with related test suites can be found in the `system-test` module to make it more sense.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
All test cases with related test suites can be found in the `systemtest` module to make it more sense.
```

And maybe we can add URL to current master tests?

> What is also worth to mentioned that our system test currently takes around ~30 hours but we have 3 separate sub-sets, which

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
What is also worth to mention that our system tests currently take around ~30 hours. We have 3 separate sub-sets of tests, which ...
```

> runs in parallel so it is "only" approximately 10h per each sub-set.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
run in parallel so it is "only" approximately 10h per each sub-set.
```

Additionally, there is also a mvn profile for the main groups - `acceptance`, `regression`, `smoke`, `bridge` and `all`,

> but we suggest to use profile with id `all` (default) and then include or exclude specific groups.

Reviewer 4: Maybe you could put there an example how to trigger specific group?

If you want specify the profile, use the `-P` flag for example `-Psmoke`.

> All available test groups are listed in [Constants](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/master/systemtest/src/main/java/io/strimzi/systemtest/Constants.java)

Reviewer 4: I suggest to link there `TESTING.md` with overall info about it.

class.

> ## How they run with relation with Kubernetes

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## How system tests run in relation with Kubernetes
```

Basically, what I mentioned in previous section system tests run against real Kubernetes cluster.

> You can run these tests against `Minikube`, `Minishift`, big `Kubernetes` or `Openshift` cluster.

Reviewer 4: Actually you can run it against any kubernetes I think.

In the `test` module we have our representation of cluster which decide on which environment it is running.

> Moreover, we are using `Azure pipelines` to trigger these tests and using `Minikube`.

Reviewer 4: It would be better to describe for what we use AZP and how the tests are split there.

## How to run them

Running the system tests is easy thing and nobody should be scared of.

### Generally

The steps are as follows:

1. Fork the [strimzi-kafka-operator](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator)
2. Build the whole project in root directory - `mvn clean install -DskipTests`
3. Setup your Kubernetes cluster
4. Login to your Kubernetes cluster

> 5. Try to start some of our tests inside system test module for instance - `io.strimzi.systemtest.bridge.HttpBridgeST.testSendSimpleMessage()` (take takes around 5 minutes)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
5. Try to start some of our tests inside system test module for instance - `io.strimzi.systemtest.bridge.HttpBridgeST.testSendSimpleMessage()` (this takes around 5 minutes)
```

> ### Using custom images

Reviewer 4: Here you can mention DOCKER_ORG, DOCKER_REGISTRY and DOCKER_TAG env vars.

If you are interest running custom images you should take a look on file which is located inside install directory and
you can be see it [here](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/master/install/cluster-operator/060-Deployment-strimzi-cluster-operator.yaml).
There are few attributes that you need to change for instance:

- `Cluster Operator` image = specify [here](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/master/install/cluster-operator/060-Deployment-strimzi-cluster-operator.yaml#L26)
- `Kafka` image = STRIMZI_KAFKA_IMAGES
- `KafkaConnect` image  = STRIMZI_KAFKA_CONNECT_IMAGES
- `KafkaConnectS2I` image =  STRIMZI_KAFKA_CONNECT_S2I_IMAGES
- `KafkaMirrorMaker` image =  STRIMZI_KAFKA_MIRROR_MAKER_IMAGES
- `KafkaMirrorMake2` image =  STRIMZI_KAFKA_MIRROR_MAKER_2_IMAGES
- `Topic Operator` image =  STRIMZI_DEFAULT_TOPIC_OPERATOR_IMAGE
- `User Operator` image =  STRIMZI_DEFAULT_USER_OPERATOR_IMAGE
- `KafkaBridge` image =  STRIMZI_DEFAULT_KAFKA_BRIDGE_IMAGE
- `CruiseControl` image =  STRIMZI_DEFAULT_CRUISE_CONTROL_IMAGE

and so on.

### Using IDE

> Also you can build and run some test from your favourite IDE.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can also build and run tests from your favourite IDE.
```

    For instance in my case I am using InteliJ and the steps are as follows.

1. Fork the [strimzi-kafka-operator](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator)
2. Open the strimzi-kafka-operator project
3. You should probably see on the right side maven modules. Select `system-test` module.
4. Click on Lifecycle and then you will see `clean` and `install`.
5. Run any test you want.

## Conclusion

> Today we have dive into system tests domain.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Today we had dive into Strimzi system tests domain.
```

---
layout: post
title:  "Introduction to system tests"
date: 2020-09-07
author: maros_orsak
---

Testing is an essential part of the software cycle.
Failures occur when testing is neglected.
In Strimzi, we are well aware of the need to test features.
Follow me on this blog post to see a basic view of our tests.

In this post we'll look at system tests and get **you** motivated to do the same.

## Motivation

Maybe you've been asking yourself the following questions:

- Why do we need to write system tests?
- Is there any value to system tests?
- Do they catch errors that unit or integration tests don't?

The answer is very simple.
Yes!
System tests are a key part of being able to ship Strimzi to users with more confidence that it will not crash in production.
The types of tests that validate the basic properties of a system we call [_Smoke tests_](https://www.guru99.com/smoke-testing.html)
Smoke tests detect major issues, such as issues with the deployment of an application or general configuration.
Moreover, we have regression test suites. 

> Regression tests cover most features and will definitely find a bug if one is caused by recent changes in verified code.

Reviewer 5: I wouldn't use "definitely". It's software, it _wants_ to be buggy, and no amount of testing will catch all the bugs.

In the next section, I will describe the difference between our system tests, integration, and unit and integration tests.

## How system tests differ from our unit and integration tests

### Unit tests

First, we need to know what is the purpose of the unit tests. 
Let's define a unit test.

> A unit test exercises a single behavior of a software module.
> That module is usually a class, and the behavior is usually a public method of the class.
> The test asserts that the actual result matches the expected result.
> These assertions must all pass, or the unit test will fail. (Ryan Cook)

> For clarification I can show you an example of a unit test for thee `cluster-operator` module.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
For clarification I can show you an example of a unit test for the `cluster-operator` module.
```

> This is the test case, which verifies that if we set up `Kafka` with an external `nodeport` listener then `Kafka` in-memory representation
> of class contains the external port name, external port 9094 with protocol TCP and more.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
This is the test case, which verifies that if we set up a `Kafka` CR with an external `nodeport` listener then the `Kafka` class instance contains the external port name, external port 9094 with protocol TCP and more.
```

> Everything what this type of test validates is only single behaviour of a sofware module that we defined

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Everything that this type of test validates is only single behaviour of a software module that we defined
```

    assertThat(ext.getSpec().getType(), is("NodePort"));
    assertThat(ext.getSpec().getSelector(), is(kc.getSelectorLabels().toMap()));
    assertThat(ext.getSpec().getPorts(), is(Collections.singletonList(kc.createServicePort(KafkaCluster.EXTERNAL_PORT_NAME, KafkaCluster.EXTERNAL_PORT, KafkaCluster.EXTERNAL_PORT, "TCP"))));
    checkOwnerReference(kc.createOwnerReference(), ext);

    // Check per pod services
    for (int i = 0; i < replicas; i++)  {
        Service srv = kc.generateExternalService(i);
        assertThat(srv.getMetadata().getName(), is(KafkaCluster.externalServiceName(cluster, i)));
        assertThat(srv.getSpec().getType(), is("NodePort"));
        assertThat(srv.getSpec().getSelector().get(Labels.KUBERNETES_STATEFULSET_POD_LABEL), is(KafkaCluster.kafkaPodName(cluster, i)));
        assertThat(srv.getSpec().getPorts(), is(Collections.singletonList(kc.createServicePort(KafkaCluster.EXTERNAL_PORT_NAME, KafkaCluster.EXTERNAL_PORT, KafkaCluster.EXTERNAL_PORT, "TCP"))));
        checkOwnerReference(kc.createOwnerReference(), srv);
    }
}
```

### Integration tests

Next up are the integration tests, which move one level higher.

> You can find all these tests inside our `api` module.

Reviewer 5: By this definition the `KafkaAssemblyOperatorTest` and `KafkaAssemblyOperatorMockTest` (etc.) are also integration tests of a sort, and probably a better example than anything from the `api` module. For me the distinction has always been a bit blurry.

There's also the `TopicOperatorIntegrationTest` which runs against a real Kafka cluster and a real Kubernetes, though the only things in that Kube cluster are `KafkaTopic`s.

    T model = loadResource(resourceClass, resource);  // load model in that case Kafka model representation
    String modelStr = TestUtils.toYamlString(model);  
    assertDoesNotThrow(() -> createDelete(modelStr), 
    "Create delete failed after first round-trip -- maybe a problem with a defaulted value?\nApplied string: " + modelStr);
}
```

You can see that the test case basically applies the YAML representation of Kafka and expects the creation of a `Kafka` customer 
resource object in Kubernetes cluster is correct.
This is applied for every custom resource supported by `Strimzi`, such as `KafkaConnect`, `KafkaMirrorMaker`, `KafkaBridge`,
`KafkaTopic`, `KafkaUser` and so on.

### System tests

After this level is successfully completed we can talk about our system tests.
Take a look at the informal definition again:

> System testing is a level of testing that validates the complete and fully integrated software product.
> The purpose of a system test is to evaluate the end-to-end system specifications.
> Usually, the software is only one element of a larger computer-based system.
> Ultimately, the software is interfaced with other software/hardware systems.

> > System Testing is actually a series of different tests whose sole purpose is to exercise the full computer-based system. (Guru)

Reviewer 5: Who is what is "Guru"?

Author: Author - https://www.guru99.com/system-testing.html

> In our case the system tests validates all components and features which that Strimzi provides.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In our case the system tests validates all components and features that Strimzi provides.
```

Everything is tested in a Kubernetes environment to fully represent a production or user environment.
Again, to clarify I have an example:

```java
@Test
void testReceiveSimpleMessage() {

>     KafkaTopicResource.topic(CLUSTER_NAME, TOPIC_NAME).done();

Reviewer 5: I think you should add a comment to lines like this, because it's meaningless to someone who doesn't know our system tests.

        .withTopicName(TOPIC_NAME)
        .withNamespaceName(NAMESPACE)
        .withClusterName(CLUSTER_NAME)
        .withMessageCount(MESSAGE_COUNT)
        .withKafkaUsername(USER_NAME)
        .withUsingPodName(kafkaClientsPodName)
        .build();

    assertThat(internalKafkaClient.sendMessagesPlain(), is(MESSAGE_COUNT));

    ClientUtils.waitForClientSuccess(consumerName, NAMESPACE, MESSAGE_COUNT);
}

@BeforeAll
void createClassResources() throws Exception {
    deployClusterOperator(NAMESPACE);
    LOGGER.info("Deploy Kafka and KafkaBridge before tests");
    // Deploy kafka
    KafkaResource.kafkaEphemeral(CLUSTER_NAME, 1, 1).done();

    KafkaClientsResource.deployKafkaClients(false, KAFKA_CLIENTS_NAME).done();

    kafkaClientsPodName = kubeClient().listPodsByPrefixInName(KAFKA_CLIENTS_NAME).get(0).getMetadata().getName();

    // Deploy http bridge
    KafkaBridgeResource.kafkaBridge(CLUSTER_NAME, KafkaResources.plainBootstrapAddress(CLUSTER_NAME), 1)
        .editSpec()
            .withNewConsumer()
                .addToConfig(ConsumerConfig.AUTO_OFFSET_RESET_CONFIG, "earliest")
            .endConsumer()
        .endSpec()

>         .done();

Reviewer 5: Again, some comments in this code would help the reader understand what's going on here.

}
```

As you can see, this test case ensures that we are able to receive messages from the `KafkaBridge` component.
In the setup phase we deploy `cluster-operator`, a single one node Kafka cluster and also the `KafkaBridge` itself.

> Everything is deployed into the real Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Everything is deployed into a real Kubernetes cluster.
```

All test cases with related test suites can be found in the [systemtest](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/tree/master/systemtest) 
module.
Also worth mentioning is that our system tests currently take around ~30 hours. 
We have 3 separate sub-sets of tests, which run in parallel so it is "only" approximately 10h per each sub-set.
Additionally, there is also a mvn profile for the main groups - `acceptance`, `regression`, `smoke`, `bridge` and `all`,
but we suggest to use a profile with id `all` (default) and then include or exclude specific groups.

> If you want specify the profile, use the `-P` flag, for example `-Psmoke`. Here is an example of how we trigger some profiles:

Reviewer 5: You're assuming the reader already knows that this `-P` flag is a `mvn` option. I think you should explain that strimzi uses maven in its build and you can run particular test groups using a maven profile.

```
Generic definition

mvn -f ${workspace}/systemtest/pom.xml -P all verify -Dgroups=${testProfile} -DexcludedGroups=${excludeGroups}

Acceptance profile

mvn -f ${workspace}/systemtest/pom.xml -P all verify -Dgroups=acceptance -DexcludedGroups=""
```

> All available test groups are listed in [Constants](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/master/systemtest/src/main/java/io/strimzi/systemtest/Constants.java)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
All available test groups are listed in the [Constants](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/master/systemtest/src/main/java/io/strimzi/systemtest/Constants.java)
```

class. If you're interested, you can view our testing [document](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/master/development-docs/TESTING.md).

## How system tests run in relation with Kubernetes

> As mentioned in the previous section, system tests run against real Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
As mentioned in the previous section, system tests run against a real Kubernetes cluster.
```

> You can run these tests against any Kubernetes cluster type such as `Minikube`, `Minishift`, big `Kubernetes` or `Openshift`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
You can run these tests against any Kubernetes cluster from `Minikube`, through to a big `Kubernetes` or `Openshift` cluster.
```

> In the `test` module we have our a representation of a cluster which to decide on which environment it is running.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In the `test` module we have a representation of a cluster that determines which environment it is running on.
```

Moreover, we are using `Azure pipelines` to trigger these tests and using `Minikube`.

## How to run them

Running system tests is nothing to be scared of. In fact, it's easy.

> The steps are as follows:

Reviewer 5: You should explain that this will run the tests against the images as they are published in `Dockerhub` (not the local images they might have built).

1. Fork the [strimzi-kafka-operator](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator)
2. Build the whole project in root directory - `mvn clean install -DskipTests`
3. Set up your Kubernetes cluster
4. Log in to your Kubernetes cluster

> 5. Try to start some of our tests inside system the `test` module, for instance - `io.strimzi.systemtest.bridge.HttpBridgeST.testSendSimpleMessage()` (this takes around 5 minutes)

Reviewer 5: Give an example command for running this test, or explain that you can run it from the IDE. Also, aren't there some env vars they need to configure?

Author: There is no need to configure any env in the IDE only if they want to use their local images. Fortunately, I already described that in that section.

There are few attributes that you need to change:

- `Cluster Operator` image = specify [here](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/master/install/cluster-operator/060-Deployment-strimzi-cluster-operator.yaml#L26)
- `Kafka` image = STRIMZI_KAFKA_IMAGES
- `KafkaConnect` image  = STRIMZI_KAFKA_CONNECT_IMAGES
- `KafkaConnectS2I` image =  STRIMZI_KAFKA_CONNECT_S2I_IMAGES
- `KafkaMirrorMaker` image =  STRIMZI_KAFKA_MIRROR_MAKER_IMAGES
- `KafkaMirrorMake2` image =  STRIMZI_KAFKA_MIRROR_MAKER_2_IMAGES
- `Topic Operator` image =  STRIMZI_DEFAULT_TOPIC_OPERATOR_IMAGE
- `User Operator` image =  STRIMZI_DEFAULT_USER_OPERATOR_IMAGE
- `KafkaBridge` image =  STRIMZI_DEFAULT_KAFKA_BRIDGE_IMAGE
- `CruiseControl` image =  STRIMZI_DEFAULT_CRUISE_CONTROL_IMAGE

And so on.

Here is also the list of important environment variables:

1. DOCKER_ORG = Specify the organization/repo containing the image used in system tests |`strimzi`|
2. DOCKER_TAG = Specify the image tags used in system tests |`latest`|
3. DOCKER_REGISTRY = Specify the docker registry used in system tests |`docker.io`|

### Using IDE

You can also build and run tests from your favourite IDE.

> In my case, I am using InteliJ and the steps are as follows.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In my case, I am using IntelliJ and the steps are as follows.
```

In the setup phase we deploy `cluster-operator`, a single one node Kafka cluster and also the `KafkaBridge` itself.
Everything is deployed into a real Kubernetes cluster.
All test cases with related test suites can be found in the [systemtest](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/tree/master/systemtest) 
module.
Also worth mentioning is that our system tests currently take around 30 hours. 
We have 3 separate sub-sets of tests, which run in parallel so it is "only" approximately 10 hours per each sub-set.
Additionally, there is a mvn profile for the main groups - `acceptance`, `regression`, `smoke`, `bridge` and `all`,
but we suggest to use a profile with id `all` (default) and then include or exclude specific groups.
If you want specify the profile, Strimzi uses maven in its build and you can run particular test groups using a maven 
profile. 
Here is an example of how we trigger some profiles:

```
Generic definition

mvn -f ${workspace}/systemtest/pom.xml -P all verify -Dgroups=${testProfile} -DexcludedGroups=${excludeGroups}

Acceptance profile

mvn -f ${workspace}/systemtest/pom.xml -P all verify -Dgroups=acceptance -DexcludedGroups=""

> ```

Reviewer: This looks weird on the website with the text inside the code. I think ideally you should take it out and have the code formatting wrap only the `mvn` command. Or at least remove the empty lines and prefix the text with `# ` as comment.

All available test groups are listed in the [Constants](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/master/systemtest/src/main/java/io/strimzi/systemtest/Constants.java)
class. If you're interested, you can view our testing [document](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/master/development-docs/TESTING.md).

## How system tests run in relation with Kubernetes

As mentioned in the previous section, system tests run against a real Kubernetes cluster.
You can run these tests against any Kubernetes cluster from `Minikube`, through to a big `Kubernetes` or `Openshift` cluster.
In the `test` module we have a representation of a cluster that determines which environment it is running on.
Moreover, we are using `Azure pipelines` to trigger these tests and using `Minikube`.

## How to run system tests

Running system tests is nothing to be scared of. In fact, it's easy. 

The steps are as follows:

> 1. Fork the [strimzi-kafka-operator](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator)

Reviewer: Would checkout be enough?

2. Build the whole project in root directory - `mvn clean install -DskipTests`
3. Set up your Kubernetes cluster
4. Log in to your Kubernetes cluster
5. Try to start some of our tests inside system the `test` module, for instance - `io.strimzi.systemtest.bridge.HttpBridgeST.testSendSimpleMessage()` (this takes around 5 minutes)

It will run tests against the images as they are published in `Dockerhub` by default. 
If you want to use your local images you should take a look on these environment variables:

1. DOCKER_ORG = Specify the organization/repo containing the image used in system tests |`strimzi`|
2. DOCKER_TAG = Specify the image tags used in system tests |`latest`|

> 3. DOCKER_REGISTRY = Specify the docker registry used in system tests |`docker.io`|

Reviewer: This doesn't format well ... check the preview: https://deploy-preview-187--strimzi.netlify.app/blog/2020/09/07/introduction-to-system-tests/

### Using custom images

If you are interested in running custom images, you should take a look at the file that is located in the install directory: [here](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/master/install/cluster-operator/060-Deployment-strimzi-cluster-operator.yaml).
There are few attributes that you need to change, including:

> - `Cluster Operator` image = specify [here](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/master/install/cluster-operator/060-Deployment-strimzi-cluster-operator.yaml#L26)

Reviewer: You should probably explain that they should do it in their local version of this file?

```suggestion
- `Cluster Operator` image = specify in local version of [this](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/master/install/cluster-operator/060-Deployment-strimzi-cluster-operator.yaml#L26) file
```

- `Kafka` image = STRIMZI_KAFKA_IMAGES
- `KafkaConnect` image  = STRIMZI_KAFKA_CONNECT_IMAGES
- `KafkaConnectS2I` image =  STRIMZI_KAFKA_CONNECT_S2I_IMAGES
- `KafkaMirrorMaker` image =  STRIMZI_KAFKA_MIRROR_MAKER_IMAGES
- `KafkaMirrorMake2` image =  STRIMZI_KAFKA_MIRROR_MAKER_2_IMAGES
- `Topic Operator` image =  STRIMZI_DEFAULT_TOPIC_OPERATOR_IMAGE
- `User Operator` image =  STRIMZI_DEFAULT_USER_OPERATOR_IMAGE
- `KafkaBridge` image =  STRIMZI_DEFAULT_KAFKA_BRIDGE_IMAGE

> - `CruiseControl` image =  STRIMZI_DEFAULT_CRUISE_CONTROL_IMAGE

Reviewer: The env vars should be formatted as code?

---
layout: post
title:  "Introduction to system tests"
date: 2020-09-07
author: maros_orsak
---

Thorough testing is an essential part of delivering software that works. 
Strimzi is tested extensively using unit, integration and system tests. 
In this blog post we are going to do a deep dive into the Strimzi system tests for anyone who's ever wondered how we do it.

## Motivation

Maybe you've been asking yourself the following questions:

- Why do we need to write system tests?
- Is there any value to system tests?
- Do they catch errors that unit or integration tests don't?

The answer is very simple.
Yes!
System tests are a key part of being able to ship Strimzi to users with more confidence that it will not crash in production.
The types of tests that validate the basic properties of a system we call [_Smoke tests_](https://www.guru99.com/smoke-testing.html)
Smoke tests detect major issues, such as issues with the deployment of an application or general configuration.
Moreover, we have regression test suites. 
Regression tests cover most features and will find a bug if one is caused by recent changes in verified code.

> In the next section, I will describe the difference between our system tests, integration, and unit and integration tests.

Reviewer 6: I wonder if this should be the introductory sentence for the next section?

## How system tests differ from our unit and integration tests

### Unit tests

> First, we need to know what is the purpose of the unit tests. 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
First, we need to know the purpose of the unit tests. 
```

> Let's define a unit test.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Let's define a unit test to demonstrate.
```

> A unit test exercises a single behavior of a software module.
> That module is usually a class, and the behavior is usually a public method of the class.
> The test asserts that the actual result matches the expected result.
> These assertions must all pass, or the unit test will fail. (Ryan Cook)

> For clarification I can show you an example of a unit test for the `cluster-operator` module.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
For clarification, I can show you an example of a unit test for the `cluster-operator` module.
```

This is the test case, which verifies that if we set up a `Kafka` CR with an external 

> `nodeport` listener then the `Kafka`  class instance contains the external port name, 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
`nodeport` listener, then the `Kafka`  class instance contains the external port name, 
```

external port 9094 with protocol TCP and more.

> Everything that this type of test validates is only single behaviour of a software module that we defined

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Everything that this type of test validates is only a single behaviour of a software module that we defined
```

    assertThat(ext.getSpec().getSelector(), is(kc.getSelectorLabels().toMap()));
    assertThat(ext.getSpec().getPorts(), is(Collections.singletonList(kc.createServicePort(KafkaCluster.EXTERNAL_PORT_NAME, KafkaCluster.EXTERNAL_PORT, KafkaCluster.EXTERNAL_PORT, "TCP"))));
    checkOwnerReference(kc.createOwnerReference(), ext);

    // Check per pod services
    for (int i = 0; i < replicas; i++)  {
        Service srv = kc.generateExternalService(i);
        assertThat(srv.getMetadata().getName(), is(KafkaCluster.externalServiceName(cluster, i)));
        assertThat(srv.getSpec().getType(), is("NodePort"));
        assertThat(srv.getSpec().getSelector().get(Labels.KUBERNETES_STATEFULSET_POD_LABEL), is(KafkaCluster.kafkaPodName(cluster, i)));
        assertThat(srv.getSpec().getPorts(), is(Collections.singletonList(kc.createServicePort(KafkaCluster.EXTERNAL_PORT_NAME, KafkaCluster.EXTERNAL_PORT, KafkaCluster.EXTERNAL_PORT, "TCP"))));
        checkOwnerReference(kc.createOwnerReference(), srv);
    }
}
```

### Integration tests

Next up are the integration tests, which move one level higher.
You can find these tests inside our `api` module.

> Moreover, there are test cases inside `topic-operator` and `cluster-operator` module.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Moreover, there are test cases inside the `topic-operator` and `cluster-operator` modules.
```

> Namely inside `topic-operator` you can find `TopicOperatorIT` and inside `cluster-operator` you can take a look on the

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Inside `topic-operator` you can find `TopicOperatorIT` and inside `cluster-operator` you can take a look on the
```

void createClassResources() throws Exception {
    deployClusterOperator(NAMESPACE);
    LOGGER.info("Deploy Kafka and KafkaBridge before tests");
    
    // deploy kafka
    KafkaResource.kafkaEphemeral(CLUSTER_NAME, 1, 1).done();

    KafkaClientsResource.deployKafkaClients(false, KAFKA_CLIENTS_NAME).done();

    kafkaClientsPodName = kubeClient().listPodsByPrefixInName(KAFKA_CLIENTS_NAME).get(0).getMetadata().getName();

    // deploy http bridge
    KafkaBridgeResource.kafkaBridge(CLUSTER_NAME, KafkaResources.plainBootstrapAddress(CLUSTER_NAME), 1)
        .editSpec()
            .withNewConsumer()
                .addToConfig(ConsumerConfig.AUTO_OFFSET_RESET_CONFIG, "earliest")
            .endConsumer()
        .endSpec()
        .done();
}
```

As you can see, this test case ensures that we are able to receive messages from the `KafkaBridge` component.
In the setup phase we deploy `cluster-operator`, a single one node Kafka cluster and also the `KafkaBridge` itself.
Everything is deployed into a real Kubernetes cluster.
All test cases with related test suites can be found in the [systemtest](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/tree/master/systemtest) 
module.

> Also worth mentioning is that our system tests currently take around ~30 hours. 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Also worth mentioning is that our system tests currently take around 30 hours. 
```

> We have 3 separate sub-sets of tests, which run in parallel so it is "only" approximately 10h per each sub-set.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
We have 3 separate sub-sets of tests, which run in parallel so it is "only" approximately 10 hours per each sub-set.
```

> Additionally, there is also a mvn profile for the main groups - `acceptance`, `regression`, `smoke`, `bridge` and `all`,

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Additionally, there is a mvn profile for the main groups - `acceptance`, `regression`, `smoke`, `bridge` and `all`,
```

profile. 
Here is an example of how we trigger some profiles:

```
Generic definition

mvn -f ${workspace}/systemtest/pom.xml -P all verify -Dgroups=${testProfile} -DexcludedGroups=${excludeGroups}

Acceptance profile

mvn -f ${workspace}/systemtest/pom.xml -P all verify -Dgroups=acceptance -DexcludedGroups=""
```

All available test groups are listed in the [Constants](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/master/systemtest/src/main/java/io/strimzi/systemtest/Constants.java)
class. If you're interested, you can view our testing [document](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/master/development-docs/TESTING.md).

## How system tests run in relation with Kubernetes

As mentioned in the previous section, system tests run against a real Kubernetes cluster.
You can run these tests against any Kubernetes cluster from `Minikube`, through to a big `Kubernetes` or `Openshift` cluster.
In the `test` module we have a representation of a cluster that determines which environment it is running on.
Moreover, we are using `Azure pipelines` to trigger these tests and using `Minikube`.

> ## How to run them

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
## How to run system tests
```

3. DOCKER_REGISTRY = Specify the docker registry used in system tests |`docker.io`|

### Using custom images

If you are interested in running custom images, you should take a look at the file that is located in the install directory: [here](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/master/install/cluster-operator/060-Deployment-strimzi-cluster-operator.yaml).
There are few attributes that you need to change:

- `Cluster Operator` image = specify [here](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/master/install/cluster-operator/060-Deployment-strimzi-cluster-operator.yaml#L26)
- `Kafka` image = STRIMZI_KAFKA_IMAGES
- `KafkaConnect` image  = STRIMZI_KAFKA_CONNECT_IMAGES
- `KafkaConnectS2I` image =  STRIMZI_KAFKA_CONNECT_S2I_IMAGES
- `KafkaMirrorMaker` image =  STRIMZI_KAFKA_MIRROR_MAKER_IMAGES
- `KafkaMirrorMake2` image =  STRIMZI_KAFKA_MIRROR_MAKER_2_IMAGES
- `Topic Operator` image =  STRIMZI_DEFAULT_TOPIC_OPERATOR_IMAGE
- `User Operator` image =  STRIMZI_DEFAULT_USER_OPERATOR_IMAGE
- `KafkaBridge` image =  STRIMZI_DEFAULT_KAFKA_BRIDGE_IMAGE
- `CruiseControl` image =  STRIMZI_DEFAULT_CRUISE_CONTROL_IMAGE

> And so on.

Reviewer 6: Do we need this? It seems a bit odd here. Maybe change the sentence previous.: _There are few attributes that you need to change, including:_

### Using IDE

You can also build and run tests from your favourite IDE.

> In my case, I am using IntelliJ and the steps are as follows.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
In my case, I use IntelliJ and the steps are as follows.
```

1. Fork the [strimzi-kafka-operator](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator)
2. Open the strimzi-kafka-operator project
3. You should probably see on the right side maven modules. Select [systemtest](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/tree/master/systemtest) 
module.
4. Click on Lifecycle and then you will see `clean` and `install`
5. Run any test you want

## Conclusion

In this post we had a quick dive into Strimzi's system tests domain.

> Simply, We learned about the motivation behind writing system tests.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
We learned about the motivation behind writing system tests.
```

> Furthermore, we talked about the main differences between system tests and unit and integration tests.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
And we talked about the main differences between system tests and unit and integration tests.
```

---
layout: post
title:  "Introduction to system tests"
date: 2020-09-07
author: maros_orsak
---

> Lessons learn from past years shown that testing is the essential part of the software cycle.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Testing is an essential part of the software cycle.
```

> We have known many failures that happened because of neglect testing.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Failures occur when testing is neglected.
```

> In Strimzi, we exactly know how we should test the features.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
In Strimzi, we are well aware of the need to test features.
```

> Follow me on this blog post and see the basic view of our tests.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Follow me on this blog post to see a basic view of our tests.
```

> In this blog post we are gonna look at system tests and I will give you motivation why you should look at it.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
In this post we'll look at system tests and get **you** motivated to do the same.
```

The content is as follows:

> # Content

Reviewer 6: I think people have commented about _content_. Not sure it's necessary considering the size of the post

Author: Ok, I will remove it.

1. [Motivation](#Resources)
2. [How they differ from our UT and IT](#Lifecycle of tests)
3. [How they run in relation with Kubernetes](#Auxiliary classes)
4. [How to run them](#How to create a system test)
5. [Conclusion](#Conclusion)

## Motivation

> Maybe you ask yourself the following questions:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Maybe you've been asking yourself the following questions:
```

- Why do we need to write system tests?

> - What is the value of it?

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- Is there any value to system tests?
```

> - Do they catch errors that unit or integration tests doesn't?

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- Do they catch errors that unit or integration tests don't?
```

The answer is very simple.
Yes!

> System Tests are a key part of being able to ship Strimzi to users with more confidence that it will not crash in the production.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
System tests are a key part of being able to ship Strimzi to users with more confidence that it will not crash in production.
```

> These types of tests, which  validate the basic properties of system we call [Smoke tests](https://www.guru99.com/smoke-testing.html).

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The types of tests that validate the basic properties of a system we call [_Smoke tests_](https://www.guru99.com/smoke-testing.html).
```

> They ensure to detect major issues such as deployment of application with general configuration and so on.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Smoke tests detect major issues, such as issues with the deployment of an application or general configuration.
```

> Moreover, we have got the regression test suites. Regression tests cover most of all features and will definitely find a bug

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Moreover, we have regression test suites. Regression tests cover most features and will definitely find a bug if there is one.
```

> if there is some caused by recent changes in verified code.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion

```

> In the next section, I will describe the difference between our system tests, integration, and unit tests.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
In the next section, I will describe the difference between our system tests, and unit and integration tests
```

> ## How system tests differ from our unit and integration tests

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
## How system tests differ from integration and unit tests
```

### Unit tests

> At first, we should know what is the purpose of the unit tests. 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
First, we need to know the purpose of unit tests. 
```

> Let's define information definition of unit test.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Let's define a unit test.
```

> A unit test exercises a single behavior of a software module.
> That module is usually a class, and the behavior is usually a public method of the class.
> The test asserts that the actual result matches the expected result.
> These assertions must all pass, or the unit test will fail. (Ryan Cook)

> Our unit tests don't do anything special.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion

```

> For clarification I can show you an example of our unit test for instance in `cluster-operator` module.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
For clarification I can show you an example of a unit test for the `cluster-operator` module.
```

> This is the test case, which verify that if we setup `Kafka` with external listener Nodeport then `Kafka` in-memory representation

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
This is the test case, which verifies that if we set up `Kafka` with an external `nodeport` listener then `Kafka` in-memory representation
```

> of class will contains the external port name, external port 9094 with protocol TCP and more.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
of class contains the external port name, external port 9094 with protocol TCP and more.
```

> You should see that everything what this type of test validates is only single behaviour of a sofware module that we define

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Everything that this type of test validates is a single behaviour of a sofware module that we defined
```

previously.
We don't need a running `Kubernetes cluster` for unit tests.

> It is only in-memory representation of class in that case `Kafka` model.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
It is only in-memory representation of class, in this case the `Kafka` model.
```

    assertThat(ext.getSpec().getType(), is("NodePort"));
    assertThat(ext.getSpec().getSelector(), is(kc.getSelectorLabels().toMap()));
    assertThat(ext.getSpec().getPorts(), is(Collections.singletonList(kc.createServicePort(KafkaCluster.EXTERNAL_PORT_NAME, KafkaCluster.EXTERNAL_PORT, KafkaCluster.EXTERNAL_PORT, "TCP"))));
    checkOwnerReference(kc.createOwnerReference(), ext);

    // Check per pod services
    for (int i = 0; i < replicas; i++)  {
        Service srv = kc.generateExternalService(i);
        assertThat(srv.getMetadata().getName(), is(KafkaCluster.externalServiceName(cluster, i)));
        assertThat(srv.getSpec().getType(), is("NodePort"));
        assertThat(srv.getSpec().getSelector().get(Labels.KUBERNETES_STATEFULSET_POD_LABEL), is(KafkaCluster.kafkaPodName(cluster, i)));
        assertThat(srv.getSpec().getPorts(), is(Collections.singletonList(kc.createServicePort(KafkaCluster.EXTERNAL_PORT_NAME, KafkaCluster.EXTERNAL_PORT, KafkaCluster.EXTERNAL_PORT, "TCP"))));
        checkOwnerReference(kc.createOwnerReference(), srv);
    }
}
```

### Integration tests

> The next one are the integration tests, which step one level higher.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Next up are the integration tests, which move one level higher.
```

You can find all these tests inside our `api` module.

> Before we get into detail again we should understand the informal definition of integration tests.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Before we get into the details again, we should understand the informal definition of integration tests.
```

> Integration tests determine if independently developed units of software work correctly when they are connected to each other. (Martin Fowler)

> In our case the purpose of integration tests is to ensure that we can create a resource from the POJOs, serialize it and

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
In our case, the purpose of integration tests is to ensure that we can create a resource from the POJOs, serialize it and
```

> create the resource in K8S.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
create the resource in Kubernetes.
```

> You should notice that in that level of testing we are using the Kubernetes cluster to do validation of custom resources.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
You should notice that in this level of testing we are using the Kubernetes cluster for validation of custom resources.
```

To make this all easy to understand let me clarify it with example:

```java
@Test
public void testKafkaWithEntityOperator() {
    createDelete(Kafka.class, "Kafka-with-entity-operator.yaml");
}

protected <T extends CustomResource> void createDelete(Class<T> resourceClass, String resource) {
    T model = loadResource(resourceClass, resource);  // load model in that case Kafka model representation
    String modelStr = TestUtils.toYamlString(model);  
    assertDoesNotThrow(() -> createDelete(modelStr), 
    "Create delete failed after first round-trip -- maybe a problem with a defaulted value?\nApplied string: " + modelStr);
}
```

> You can see that the test case basically apply the YAML representation of Kafka and expect creation of `Kafka` customer 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
You can see that the test case basically applies the YAML representation of Kafka and expects the creation of a `Kafka` customer 
```

resource object in Kubernetes cluster is correct.

> This is applied for every custom resource supported by `Strimzi` for instance `KafkaConnect`, `KafkaMirrorMaker`, `KafkaBridge`,

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
This is applied for every custom resource supported by `Strimzi`, such as `KafkaConnect`, `KafkaMirrorMaker`, `KafkaBridge`,
```

`KafkaTopic`, `KafkaUser` and so on.

### System tests

After this level is successfully completed we can talk about our system tests.

> Take a look on the informal definition again:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Take a look at the informal definition again:
```

> System testing is a level of testing that validates the complete and fully integrated software product.
> The purpose of a system test is to evaluate the end-to-end system specifications.
> Usually, the software is only one element of a larger computer-based system.
> Ultimately, the software is interfaced with other software/hardware systems.
> System Testing is actually a series of different tests whose sole purpose is to exercise the full computer-based system. (Guru)

> In our case the system tests validates the whole components/features which Strimzi provides.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
In our case the system tests validates all the components and features that Strimzi provides.
```

> Everything is tested in Kubernetes environment to fully represent production or user environment.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Everything is tested in a Kubernetes environment to fully represent a production or user environment.
```

> Again to clarify I have an example:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Again, to clarify I have an example:
```

        .withTopicName(TOPIC_NAME)
        .withNamespaceName(NAMESPACE)
        .withClusterName(CLUSTER_NAME)
        .withMessageCount(MESSAGE_COUNT)
        .withKafkaUsername(USER_NAME)
        .withUsingPodName(kafkaClientsPodName)
        .build();

    assertThat(internalKafkaClient.sendMessagesPlain(), is(MESSAGE_COUNT));

    ClientUtils.waitForClientSuccess(consumerName, NAMESPACE, MESSAGE_COUNT);
}

@BeforeAll
void createClassResources() throws Exception {
    deployClusterOperator(NAMESPACE);
    LOGGER.info("Deploy Kafka and KafkaBridge before tests");
    // Deploy kafka
    KafkaResource.kafkaEphemeral(CLUSTER_NAME, 1, 1).done();

    KafkaClientsResource.deployKafkaClients(false, KAFKA_CLIENTS_NAME).done();

    kafkaClientsPodName = kubeClient().listPodsByPrefixInName(KAFKA_CLIENTS_NAME).get(0).getMetadata().getName();

    // Deploy http bridge
    KafkaBridgeResource.kafkaBridge(CLUSTER_NAME, KafkaResources.plainBootstrapAddress(CLUSTER_NAME), 1)
        .editSpec()
            .withNewConsumer()
                .addToConfig(ConsumerConfig.AUTO_OFFSET_RESET_CONFIG, "earliest")
            .endConsumer()
        .endSpec()
        .done();
}
```

> This test case as you can see ensures that we are able to receive messages from `KafkaBridge` component.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
As you can see, this test case ensures that we are able to receive messages from the `KafkaBridge` component.
```

> In the setup phase we deploy `cluster-operator`, one node Kafka cluster and also the `KafkaBridge` itself.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
In the setup phase we deploy `cluster-operator`, a single node Kafka cluster and the `KafkaBridge` itself.
```

Everything is deployed into the real Kubernetes cluster.
All test cases with related test suites can be found in the [systemtest](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/tree/master/systemtest) 

> module to make it more sense.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
module.
```

> What is also worth to mention that our system tests currently take around ~30 hours. 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Also worth mentioning is that our system tests currently take around ~30 hours. 
```

We have 3 separate sub-sets of tests, which run in parallel so it is "only" approximately 10h per each sub-set.
Additionally, there is also a mvn profile for the main groups - `acceptance`, `regression`, `smoke`, `bridge` and `all`,

> but we suggest to use profile with id `all` (default) and then include or exclude specific groups.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
but we suggest to use a profile with id `all` (default) and then include or exclude specific groups.
```

> If you want specify the profile, use the `-P` flag for example `-Psmoke`. Here is an example of how we trigger some profiles

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
If you want specify the profile, use the `-P` flag, for example `-Psmoke`. Here is an example of how we trigger some profiles:
```

```
Generic definition

mvn -f ${workspace}/systemtest/pom.xml -P all verify -Dgroups=${testProfile} -DexcludedGroups=${excludeGroups}

Acceptance profile

mvn -f ${workspace}/systemtest/pom.xml -P all verify -Dgroups=acceptance -DexcludedGroups=""
```

> All available test groups are listed in [Constants](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/master/systemtest/src/main/java/io/strimzi/systemtest/Constants.java)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
All available test groups are listed in [Constants](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/master/systemtest/src/main/java/io/strimzi/systemtest/Constants.java).
```

> class. In case of interest you can view our testing [document](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/master/development-docs/TESTING.md).

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
class. If you're interested, you can view our testing [document](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/master/development-docs/TESTING.md).
```

## How system tests run in relation with Kubernetes

> Basically, what I mentioned in previous section system tests run against real Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
As mentioned in the previous section, system tests run against real Kubernetes cluster.
```

You can run these tests against any Kubernetes cluster type such as `Minikube`, `Minishift`, big `Kubernetes` or `Openshift`.

> In the `test` module we have our representation of cluster which decide on which environment it is running.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
In the `test` module we have a representation of a cluster to decide on which environment it is running.
```

Moreover, we are using `Azure pipelines` to trigger these tests and using `Minikube`.

> ## How to run them

Reviewer 6: Do we need this title?

Author: I would prefer to have this title to separate it from `How system tests run in relation with Kubernetes`

> Running the system tests is easy thing and nobody should be scared of.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Running system tests is nothing to be scared of. In fact, it's easy.
```

> ### Generally

Reviewer 6: Do we need this title?

Author: No, we don't. I will remove it.

The steps are as follows:

1. Fork the [strimzi-kafka-operator](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator)
2. Build the whole project in root directory - `mvn clean install -DskipTests`

> 3. Setup your Kubernetes cluster

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
3. Set up your Kubernetes cluster
```

> 4. Login to your Kubernetes cluster

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
4. Log in to your Kubernetes cluster
```

> 5. Try to start some of our tests inside system test module for instance - `io.strimzi.systemtest.bridge.HttpBridgeST.testSendSimpleMessage()` (this takes around 5 minutes)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
5. Try to start some of our tests inside system the test module, for instance - `io.strimzi.systemtest.bridge.HttpBridgeST.testSendSimpleMessage()` (this takes around 5 minutes)
```

### Using custom images

> If you are interest running custom images you should take a look on file which is located inside install directory and

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
If you are interested in running custom images, you should take a look at the file that is located in the install directory:
```

> you can be see it [here](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/master/install/cluster-operator/060-Deployment-strimzi-cluster-operator.yaml).

Reviewer 6: ```[060-Deployment-strimzi-cluster-operator.yaml](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/master/install/cluster-operator/060-Deployment-strimzi-cluster-operator.yaml).
```

> There are few attributes that you need to change for instance:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
There are few attributes that you need to change:
```

- `Cluster Operator` image = specify [here](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/master/install/cluster-operator/060-Deployment-strimzi-cluster-operator.yaml#L26)
- `Kafka` image = STRIMZI_KAFKA_IMAGES
- `KafkaConnect` image  = STRIMZI_KAFKA_CONNECT_IMAGES
- `KafkaConnectS2I` image =  STRIMZI_KAFKA_CONNECT_S2I_IMAGES
- `KafkaMirrorMaker` image =  STRIMZI_KAFKA_MIRROR_MAKER_IMAGES
- `KafkaMirrorMake2` image =  STRIMZI_KAFKA_MIRROR_MAKER_2_IMAGES
- `Topic Operator` image =  STRIMZI_DEFAULT_TOPIC_OPERATOR_IMAGE
- `User Operator` image =  STRIMZI_DEFAULT_USER_OPERATOR_IMAGE
- `KafkaBridge` image =  STRIMZI_DEFAULT_KAFKA_BRIDGE_IMAGE
- `CruiseControl` image =  STRIMZI_DEFAULT_CRUISE_CONTROL_IMAGE

> and so on.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
And so on.
```

Here is also the list of important environment variables:

1. DOCKER_ORG = Specify the organization/repo containing the image used in system tests |`strimzi`|
2. DOCKER_TAG = Specify the image tags used in system tests |`latest`|
3. DOCKER_REGISTRY = Specify the docker registry used in system tests |`docker.io`|

### Using IDE

You can also build and run tests from your favourite IDE.

> For instance in my case I am using InteliJ and the steps are as follows.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
In my case, I am using InteliJ and the steps are as follows.
```

1. Fork the [strimzi-kafka-operator](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator)
2. Open the strimzi-kafka-operator project
3. You should probably see on the right side maven modules. Select [systemtest](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/tree/master/systemtest) 
module.

> 4. Click on Lifecycle and then you will see `clean` and `install`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
4. Click on Lifecycle and then you will see `clean` and `install`
```

> 5. Run any test you want.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
5. Run any test you want
```

## Conclusion

> Today we had dive into Strimzi system tests domain.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
In this post we had a quick dive into Strimzi's system tests domain.
```

> Simply, we learned about the motivation behind writing system tests.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
We learned the basics and motivation behind writing system tests.
```

> Furthermore, we talked about the main differences unit, integration vs system tests.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Furthermore, we talked about the main differences between system tests and unit and integration tests.
```

> Afterwards, we looked at the relation with the Kubernetes.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
After, we looked at the relationship between system tests and Kubernetes.
```

> Lastly, we try the procedure how to start some system test.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Lastly, we showed how to start a system test.
```
